[Music]
if you're following the mind it's very
hard to allow anger to move cleanly
whether your story is they're absolutely
wrong and they deserve this or your
story is no they deserve compassion any
kind of thick story around it is going
to really make the anger have a hard
time coming out in a clean way
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
all right how are you doing today Joe
I'm good I'm good I'm uh
[Music]
I'm really looking forward to the
weekend with this AOA has been a lot
it's been a lot yes it's been a lot this
week so a while back we did an episode
on anger and that was actually several
months ago that we recorded it and now
we're doing a second one on anger and
it's a really interesting time to do it
for me because in AOA we're kind of in
the middle middle to late AOA and after
that feel over figure week a lot of
stuff started coming up in some other
groups and some of the partners and even
even Among Us and some of our like
circles and there's just so much coming
up around anger repressed anger sideways
anger projections of anger projections
of repressed sideways anger anger at the
anger shame spirals all these things are
happening and it's all beautiful and
juicy and like many of us are just still
in it to some extent I definitely am
yeah yeah and so this is this is
something that I really want to come
back to and do another episode on anger
to follow up the previous one that we
recorded which will have been released
just before or this one by the time this
comes out yeah and what I noticed in
like the conversations that are
happening on circle is that the a large
portion of it is is like it's around the
technical part of anger it's not like I
think the last podcast we did I just
listened to it knowing that we wanted to
do anger again and
um the last podcast that we did was just
more on the theoretical and this feels
like it's more like
like when I'm seeing everybody talk
about on circle is just about the
technicalities of anger and so to me
that feels like a really cool place to
talk about it what's going on actually
inside of a single person around anger
so that's exciting to me what are some
of the symptoms that you see of of these
forms of anger so there's kind of three
ways that it goes right there's the
there's the anger in words so that's
like the self-abusive talk
there's the anger
sideways
right which is kind of passive
aggression it's like I'm angry but I'm
not allowed to be angry so I do a whole
bunch of things and that particular
thing is really difficult for people to
see that they're doing when they're
doing it
so passive aggressive lots of people
don't think they're being passive
aggressive when they are until they see
it you know subtlety see it as they say
and then and then the other kind of in
the way that I look at it the other kind
of repressed anger is getting angry at
somebody it's
like that is repressed anger that's
that's anger not coming out clearly
either
so if I think about anger as like a tube
or a like a wire and it's like is that
wire open or is that wire constricted is
it and if it's twisted one way it's like
I'm not angry I'm not angry and if it's
twisted another way it's like nice dress
and if it's twisted another way it's
like [__] [__] [__] you
so I think all of those are are forms of
repressed anger and so
like on a symptomatic level this looks
like depression like oftentimes one of
the quickest ways to help people with
low level dysthymia depression is just
allow them to move their anger its
symptoms are abusive self-talk it's
people having a hard time feeling
determination
codependence passive aggression like you
know blaming other people for your
emotional experience that's a form of
passive aggression um
uh being late or not taking out the
trash or doing something that like you
know is going to get the other person
angry like that that level of passive
aggression subtle undermining that
happens the propensity to freeze
in your own head like that is off all
and then yelling at people taking your
anger out on people that's all forms of
what I would call repression of the
energy
it's it's kinking the hose in one way or
another yeah interesting you mentioned
the the ones that you mentioned about
being codependent with or guilting
people those are those are interesting
to me
um those are ones that I've experienced
a lot in my life and sometimes I've like
relived that pattern a little bit and it
doesn't feel like anger it's just like
oh look what you've done there with your
anger now now we're all sad because the
anger happened right yeah yeah and kind
of psychology in general in our society
in general especially kind of more in
the left side of the political Spectrum
anger itself is the bad guy and it's not
okay to be angry at somebody but it's
okay to be sad at them or you know it's
not even recognized that someone's being
sad at somebody
and when you're being sad at somebody in
a weird way that that is passive
aggression right so so yeah it's it's a
fascinating thing and once you see it
it's like holy crap it's happening all
over
these forms of passive aggressive but
the person who's doing it feels stuck
they feel oppressed so they don't they
don't always see that they're doing it
guilting somebody's another great
example of passive aggression so
continuing on to some of these these
reasons for repressed anger
how how did these patterns end up
getting installed in US yeah okay three
basic
General ways that it happens right so
one of them is that you had an
experience of somebody who is always
angry as a as a child so like a mom or
dad or a teacher and that anger became
was at you it was manipulative it was
trying to change you
and then that became completely unsafe
and so you vowed to yourself some way
that like I will never do that to other
people again so and it could be a
sibling it could be a caretaker but
where that anger was so destructive that
you were like yeah I'm not doing that so
that's one way that we've like repressed
it there's another way that's like anger
was just never allowed in the house
for whenever anger happened in the house
it was all at people it was like
so like that comes out
that's the form of repression that comes
out you either got love removed from you
if you were angry because it was just
not allowed or
you got attention by having the anger
that was hurt like that guy that you got
you the engagement in love as a kid that
you that you wanted
um and then it worked in a way yeah yeah
exactly and then the other one is that I
mean that was my my childhood right like
I got the most engagement from my family
when I was angry
and for somebody who's in that side of
things like I was if you're angry at
someone you're like ah ah and they're
like freeze or check out you're like
you're abandoning me why are you
abandoning me
and the person on the other side of it
who's like
why are you abandoning me by attacking
me right like why like I have to go make
myself safe so it's it both of them feel
trapped both of them feel abandoned so
it's just like which one you learned and
then the last thing is that you were
rejected punished if you got angry
if you got angry in your house it was
like
you know and this happens at such a
young age like temper tantrums
like just like not allowing your kid to
have like that full out
and so that's how it happens so
basically you get taught to repress it
in one of the ways something that's
interesting about this is there seem to
be so many ways especially for this
particular emotion to be to be repressed
and so when when people
of all different Stripes of you know
anger suppression start to try to
release anger what are some of the
things that happen in the mind that just
subtly block it before they even can
become aware of it
you know so let's say I'm angry at you
right I'm not getting angry at you
because we do not suggest getting angry
at anybody because that's control that's
manipulation so
I go off I get angry and my mind is
gonna start saying things like well you
know
Brett's point of view you know it's
totally reasonable to see it his way
like he had like it that's one of the
ways it does it mine does that yeah and
then the other one which is true I'm not
saying that that's not true by the way
it's just it's an order of operations
thing if you do that first then you're
not going to get through the anger right
um which is the same thing as a second
which is like compassion oh I should be
compassionate
no you're angry be angry and then the
compassion will naturally come out of
that if the anger moves in a
in a healthy
attuned way
you'll start judging your anger release
you'll say that's like that's bad like
especially people have like moral
or religious things where they're like
these are the good emotions these are
the bad emotions I'm supposed to be
happy and I'm not allowed to be angry so
they'll your brain will do that
and then you'll also the other thing
that happens is you'll be you'll hear
your brain telling yourself you're
ignorant if you've lost control in your
anger you're ignorant right
that's the way it works if it's like
repressed as in like not coming out but
if it's coming out and it's coming out
kink like
or passive aggressive oftentimes
the way that the brain is talking to you
and that is like you believe that you're
stuck you believe that you're alone in
it and that that's how the brain
convinces you to repress it in that way
because
stuck just means that you don't want
imagined consequences right so like I'm
stuck because I can't tell my wife
that she's a crappy cook because then
she'll get mad at me so what's really
true is that like I don't want my wife
to get mad at me not that I'm stuck
so that's the way that the mind works to
repress it that way it's like it it
believes the story yeah that seems to
also happen interpersonally too you can
have you can have in a partnership that
one person's voice in the head is
suppressing the other person's anger and
they're like it just kind of like
crosses the boundary there and then
uh that's I'm speaking from experience
there in my life totally totally yeah we
got to see that with the guy talking
about the
um anger to his parents today right like
it's like one person feels oppressed by
the the anger that's coming out
right so so one person in the
relationship someone's like
that form of repressed anger makes
somebody else feel oppressed the other
person's form of repressed anger which
is like I'm freaking out of here freeze
like uh
then that is makes this person feel
abandoned and they both feel stuck and
they're both angry but nobody's actually
just allowing that free flow of anger to
happen we were just talking about ways
that the free flow of anger can be
resisted in our Consciousness before
we're even aware of it and then there's
there's other ways it can be resisted
like in the body so we could be maybe
recognizing that there's anger or not
but it's coming through somehow into our
actions into our muscle tension
uh what are what are some of those
resistances that might come up in that
next layer yeah so let's say you got
abused as a kid for any time you were
angry let's say you had like a a brother
who was a bully and every time you got
angry you just got smashed right so
so then you're gonna have fear and I've
seen this I've seen people release their
anger for the first time and then as
soon as they've done it they're like
and then we watch this in slow motion
it's so cool they go
and then as they pull away and realize
they got angry their eyes wide and
they're like they're just totally
frightened so the body will like have
fear that happens that says it's
completely unsafe
it's very scared of re being rejected
that's another thing is that it will
feel rejected
oftentimes the body will be actually
scared of the freedom that gets felt
after anger the empowerment and the
freedom and the less rigidity and
holding so the so the body is like
and I wouldn't even say scared the body
isn't it's used to something it's used
to holding in a certain way and and to
ask it to unhold it just like it's going
to go through the process of unholding
that stuff and that's gonna come up in
the form of like
fear that you'll be lost fear of of like
losing some of the rigidity
that's how it's going to work yeah it's
interesting so there's like scared that
there'll be attacked so that would be
actually just like the anger will be
expressed through a physical protection
kind of holding yeah in a weird way
there's almost always and every time
there's anger that overwhelm
almost every time there's anger the
overwhelm
is an overwhelming of some other like we
talked about in that other podcast
there's like there's this deep care but
there's also some fear there's also hurt
like there's a lot of stuff happening
underneath it yeah I'm interested in the
one you talked about about being scared
of the freedom that it will bring it
seems that you know if you if you are
afraid of your anger and
you're living in the story that other
people's anger is causing you a problem
or that your anger is causing a problem
and you're in a shame spiral there's a
way that it's easier to feel that than
to feel
the the power of well if my anger
actually moved through me cleanly
things would change around me and maybe
I don't feel like I trust myself
or the world to
integrate those changes in a way that
like is good like the effects that come
out from my determination are going to
hurt people and I'm not going to want
that to have happened right it's the
same thing right that's what your mind
is going to be saying
it's very similar to your mind saying oh
you should be compassionate
it's like
jumping into the future
not paying attention to the present it's
jumping into the future and saying this
is how
like I think it should be this is how I
think it's gonna go instead of trusting
the emotion right and that's the whole
thing the the essential piece is that
if you're following the mind it's very
hard to allow anger to move
it's really hard to allow anger to move
cleanly
whether your story is they're absolutely
wrong and they deserve this or your
story is no they deserve compassion
either one of those stories
any kind of thick story around it is
going to really
make the anger have a hard time coming
out in a clean way yeah it'll have to be
funneled through one of those stories
and then it becomes compressed into a
like a sharp water cannon right
including the story that I have to
figure out how to get angry that I
should get angry like there's this yeah
instead of just like it's like
it's like overthinking going to the
bathroom it's literally like that like
if you start really thinking about it
it's gonna get in the way of the of it
moving in a clean efficient way so how
can releasing anger go wrong once we've
gotten through each of these steps
you're you're recognizing it consciously
you are now recognizing it in your body
your body's tension is allowing it
through and then you release it how does
what goes wrong there yeah so again
depending on kind of the way that it's
kinked if it's kinked in one way if it's
kinked where it's like usually
um goes into
um kind of either the internal or the
passive aggression you're going to go
into collapse particularly the passive
aggression you're going to go into
collapse so you'll start the anger we'll
start going and then you'll go
you're like literally when I see people
do this when we're doing this with
people in person you'll see them
like they collapse into it
and so that's one thing that happens the
other thing that happens if they fully
believe the story
if they fully buy into that they have a
reason to be angry blah blah blah blah
then they become unregulated that like
they they actually lose control so when
people think about
when people in our society say that
person was angry they're usually talking
about a person who's become dysregulated
they're like out of their body they're
out of their experience they're saying
things that they don't want to say which
is just another form of repressed anger
and then the other thing that happens is
people recreate the shame so they'll
they'll get angry in such a way that
destroys something they'll get angry in
such a way they'll get angry at somebody
they'll get angry in a way that hurts
themselves
and so they'll do that so that they can
then prove to themselves anger isn't
good anger isn't isn't a good thing it
it's hurting people blah blah blah blah
so when people move that anger those are
the things that will happen often is
they'll go into collapse they'll go into
dysregulation or they'll recreate their
shame and that that's where anger can go
wrong it sounds like those are actually
kind of stages uh like collapse first
you have anger you're just going to cut
the anger off let's not cause problems
so I'm talking about something different
so we're saying someone's moving their
anger we're not saying that they're
cutting it off cutting it off is like
I'm not angry or you know that of course
I'm talking about like
like literally like they go their their
back bends their
you know they they it's like shame hits
them okay so maybe maybe a stages wasn't
the term for it but I still see sort of
a progression here it's like
the first times that you might release
some anger might move some anger that's
been held for a long time it'll come out
a little bit and then you'll collapse
you'll feel it somewhat and then it'll
it'll you'll the anger will come out and
then there'll be some kind of kind of a
collapse like
uh let's back the chain up you know
let's undo that and then this next
another way that it comes out is maybe
more of the anger comes out and it's
unregulated and it's just sort of a mess
and if you do that enough you'll end up
in a situation where maybe you've
recreated the shame I would say it's not
quite that way
um so I would say it's more of if you're
the person who is doing more
self-abusive stuff then you're likely to
go into collapse if you're the person
who took it out on people a lot then
you're going to more likely get into the
unregulated side of it
if you're somebody who has a lot of
Shame around their anger then you're
going to recreate the shame around the
anger and you could be one or all of
those things so it might be a
progression for some like you're
pointing out and for other people it
might be the exact reverse progression
and some people it might just be only
one thing that they do yeah interesting
so then what does what does somebody do
about this uh about each of these if you
if you're lucky enough to catch this
happen in yourself yeah yeah yeah yeah
so the
the dysregulation one is is the most
interesting to me right which because
it's the one that our society is most
scared of is someone getting angry and
actually like losing control and it's I
think deep down the fear that we almost
all have around getting angry it's like
I'm gonna destroy and we talked about
this in the other podcast
so that one is it's not believing the
story it's seeing yourself as an actor
it's like
it's like being in the Observer position
is a far better way to do it it's like
allowing so for somebody who's goes into
freeze or flight being in the Observer
position is going to completely shut off
anger they're just not going to be able
to access it so for those people they're
going to need to go into the story a bit
they're going to need to believe this
story a bit until the anger can move and
they can listen to their body whereas a
person who's like believes that
everybody is screwed up and they need to
get angry to fix the situation or that
it's highly okay that they're angry
then the best thing for them is to
actually move
into the awareness position to see
themselves being angry it's the best
When I See This the exercise I give
people is
be an actor playing the role of you
getting angry
so that they can see that it's like oh
I'm just here to give a good performance
but I I on some level I don't believe it
what's the way if somebody's doing that
they're doing this on their own they're
doing it without coaching or
facilitation and they're having some
anger move and they're like okay so I'm
gonna get into the story a little bit
Yeah and then once the anchor starts
moving they go further and further into
the story and then really buying into it
what's what's a way to internally catch
that if this is a practice that people
are exploring on their own just from
this podcast alone so you know you'll
know the feeling of being
of buying into the story and the fact
that you get you're unregulated there
are times where if you lose yourself in
the release of anger there's like
there's a huge amount of Freedom there
but dysregulated is a little bit
different and so what I mean by that is
like
where you've left your body
where you don't feel like you're in your
body anymore
maybe for some people they're like
looking at themselves from above and in
some people they're not aware of the
time and space it's like they've
completely lost themselves and so if
that's happened it means you bought into
the story way way way way too much
and the other thing that will happen is
the anger won't provide Clarity at the
end so at the end of an anger movement
you're going to get kind of clarity and
determination that's what's going to
happen if you don't get there
it means that anger isn't the proper
emotion or you got completely lost in
the story and so you're just you're just
basically re-traumatizing yourself at
that point and can you be more specific
on Clarity and determination because I
think one of the things that can happen
is somebody finds Clarity and they're
like okay I'm clear this person needs to
change or yeah I'm pretty clear [__]
them
yeah so what do you what do you really
mean by when it's actually moved through
the clarity and determination it's a
visceral sense right so I'm clear [__]
them is there's no Clarity in that
somatic experience so it's literally
like relief it's like aha I know what to
do it's clear there's no more fight in
me there's no more or it's not that
there's no words but the tension that
I'm feeling around it is so dissolved
right and so it actually could be I
wouldn't say [__] them but it could be
like Yeah The Clarity is that I don't
want to be around them definitely so it
could be that but if it's like yeah I'm
clear [__] them you're not clear but if
it's like oh oh yeah I don't want I
realize I don't want to be around them
and so that's the second kind of clue is
that Clarity is all about you it's not
about anybody else so it's I don't want
to be there around them it's an eye like
it's about yourself right it's a it's
about yourself it's about what you're
going to do from your empowered place
and not what needs to happen around you
yes that's right yeah I think we only
got to one so you asked me this question
what do you do about the collapse what
do you do about the unregulated what do
you do about the shame the shame one I
think all you need is awareness it's
just like don't hurt yourself don't hurt
others don't do it at anybody don't
break [__] like it's just that simple
like how do you do that without a
without that becoming a should like I
said I think all that's necessary is
awareness if you're just aware that oh
like one of the things I might do is
recreate the cycle of Shame around this
anger
and then if you see it and you do it and
you go oh that's just me recreating the
shame around it that's all that's
necessary if you make it a should it's
you know then it's going to take a lot
longer it's gonna take a lot longer and
then with the collapse
if you notice you go into collapse
you know you have the use of Will and
just be like yeah I'm not doing that
just like you would in a workout
but the other thing that you can do is
just repeat one sentence like no no I
won't collapse I won't collapse
or you can't stop me just whatever that
sentence is that triggers the anger
response
it's like to feel the the oppression of
the collapse
instead of the oppression of the anger
to feel the oppression of the collapse
and respond to it and be like no I'm not
going there no I will be empowered you
will not stop me you will not stop me
you will not stop me from being angry
that is a really good thing it often has
huge releases for people if they can
just find that phrase
in response to that very early childhood
no you can't be angry yeah you can it
seems like you could do that internally
with your voice you can do that with a
partner you can do that have that come
out at Society or around Society in your
you know in your safe place to express
anger yeah you said something with a
partner
which is a kind of something that we do
in our work which is like oh we're we'll
move anger with other people which makes
moving anger a lot easier but it's
there's a lot of pitfalls there
um a lot of people want to be good with
anger when they're not or somebody who
has had a lot of anger trauma in their
life will freak out if people are
getting angry around them
so if you're moving anger with other
people I suggest that hey everybody
moves it in themselves first by
themselves that's a for sure thing do it
with like one person and make sure
there's like you can stop it at any time
you do not want to recreate trauma for
anybody this is all great and the thing
that I was actually referring to about
like with a partner might be that
like if if you feel that that partner is
not allowing you to be angry ah there's
there's that whole like fractal layers
of my internal voice and the head
doesn't let me be angry I find myself in
a partnership with someone who doesn't
let me be angry I have a society that I
believe won't let me be angry and that I
can't there's this there's these layers
of layers like I am allowed to be angry
or no or one that I've heard recently
um my partner was like I exist yeah yeah
yeah yeah that's a great it's just an
affirmation which is letting letting it
move and getting out of the collapse
yeah that's exactly right I exist is a
great one yeah yeah beautiful
cool yeah so those are that's kind of
the things to do around those things
that can go wrong while releasing so
let's get into some more of the just
tricks for getting this to move before
we do I'm just thinking about something
I'm thinking about this thing of like
so you move the a I'm just seeing if
we're missing something here so
you realize you have this the kind of
the these are the symptoms of it I see
that I need to move the anger in a clean
way
these are the things that can get in the
way of me doing it then I do it these
are the things that can go wrong while
I'm doing it I think there's another the
other piece that I wanna
speak to is sometimes somebody who's so
used to anger is like kind of the
default thing once you start releasing
it that you can use it as a way to cover
the under underlying hurt or fear
that can happen and so if you notice
you're releasing anger
and maybe even you get like small bits
of clarity
but it's not like this
oh yeah I see it
moment and it just keeps on recycling
really quickly every couple days or
every day or something like that then
you have some other stuff to feel
underneath then you have some
some fear or some hurt or some
helplessness that's still the Earth
grief that's left to feel
and so I would play with that I would
allow myself to feel those things so
let's move on to to some some tricks for
people to be releasing their anger in a
way that is safe and then reaching that
determination and Clarity or uncovering
some of those other feelings that they
might be avoiding because it's not
always entirely about anger listen to
Tool exactly yeah I love it yeah yeah
yeah take some leeches I've been really
into their album I don't know the one
that like came after a long period of
time but yeah I like tool in particular
because it's so angry and aggressive but
it's also speaking to this kind of deep
spiritual truth which is like a cool but
whatever any kind of anger
um any kind of angry music can be really
helpful
that's a really good one and if you're
doing anything like my learning how to
be sad you can just fake it too you can
just say I was working with somebody the
other day and
and they were having this hard time
you know we were going back into when
they were five years old and and it's
like well what would have been like to
go through this scenario but getting
angry at your father
and it literally they couldn't say and I
was like well just fake it just fake it
you know it doesn't have to be towards
your Dad we're just gonna if you were
like playing a five-year-old what would
you
and then that could release it so that's
a that's a cool way to do it yeah and
similar to the performance like being an
actor right just giving giving yourself
the space to all right I'm just if if I
were to let myself be angry and not do
the other thing what would that actually
look like well let's pretend so you can
either be the actor and focus on the
fact that it's not you who's angry and
that's for somebody who gets
disregulated and then and then you can
focus on giving a good performance if
you're the kind of person who's like
just not going to get angry like how do
you get give a good performance the
other thing is like to respond to some
of the thoughts at the beginning so the
thought says
there's no real good reason to be angry
they have their reasons you should be
compassionate like the my favorite thing
to say is like hey I've listened to you
for like a decade now I'm just gonna
listen to anger for like 20 minutes I'm
just gonna listen for 20 minutes
that's another way if you get
dysregulated is like to listen to the
anger
either way either you're playing the
actor or you're listening to the anger
there's a part of you that is outside of
the process
and the anger moves a lot quicker if
you're if there's some part of you
outside of the process and the anger is
moving both two things have to be
happening so but yeah just responding to
the voice in your head telling you not
to you know hey just I'm gonna listen
for 15 minutes
see what it has to say yeah having a
having a view conversation with it
essentially for a little bit comes out
yeah um it seems like you can also
I mean you can go go places there's
times that you might be feeling this and
it might be in the middle of a board
meeting and you've got the stuff going
on and maybe you're just like okay okay
voice I'm going to listen to you that
this anger isn't safe here right now for
I'll listen to you for the next 10
minutes and then when I'm driving home
I'm gonna listen to the anger that's
right but finding a safe place for it
finding a safe place is important
yelling in a pillow putting music on so
nobody can hear you going to the beach
doing it in the car doing it in nature
you can just sit there and rant you
don't ha I mean it's best if you're
releasing anger with your physical body
and your voice and your sounds that's
where you're going to get like the most
but you can just be like God damn
[__] I [__] hate when that
happens why the [__] is that always
happening like right it can it can
literally just be like a rant that
anybody could not hear from a different
room
it's not going to release the
musculature the trauma musculature the
same way but it it still is a great
process of moving the anger what about
breath work yeah breath is huge so
um
it's way too complicated to describe
here but I will say hey if you can
breathe in a way that builds up your
anger great that's a great way for those
people who've repressed anger in a way
that it's self-abusive or the passive
aggression
to be able to
breathe in such a way that allows you to
get angry breathe like the Hulk anyway
it'll be different for different people
but that yeah that would be a great one
um have the determination of working out
is the same thing
um
and literally telling your body hey it's
safe it's okay to literally say hey I'm
not going to be abused here I'm not
going to get attacked by my abusive
brother I'm not going to
I'm not going to destroy anybody I'm not
hurting anybody nobody's here to hear me
like literally to just tell your body
that give your body that message I it
seems simple but it can totally work
what if you're someone like me who goes
straight to compassion first yeah and
anger comes up and then the body's just
like no like I love whoever I'm angry at
ask your compassion to be compassionate
to anger hmm
if compassion's really being
compassionate it's accepting of
everything including the anger the last
thing I would say is just to
allow yourself
so I'll do this you you've probably seen
me do this sometimes like you'll see a
couple people when we're like talking
about it on Circle
they'll say something and I'll respond
and then they're like that made me
really angry and so typically what's
happening there is that they are saying
something about like I'm a victim and
I'm stuck and I call that victim into
question and they get pissed
it's like the response when the victim
is called into question
right when it's like really like you
know because your wife went to work and
now you're a stay-at-home dad you're the
one that's not in control and you have
to do everything your wife says
really because it seems like you have
like you're the slave master and she's
doing all the work for you and making
all the money so what are we talking
about here right and they'll go be like
what the [__] you know like and then
that anger comes up I'm like yeah that
that that that so if you can
deconstruct the victim the thing that
thinks you're stuck
and say actually
you're just pretending the victim will
get pretty damn angry and so that's
another little trick you can use so to
wrap this one up I'm I'm curious to ask
you about a time like the most recent
time that you found yourself having some
repressed anger and how you caught it
how you knew it got to Clarity whether
or not it was true Clarity or later on
you're like wait a minute there's still
some more yeah
okay couple things in that there's
always still some more
I mean like I don't know if it's like
accumulated
meaning like
yeah in two weeks I'll have some anger
that hasn't so there's always something
there to move
it doesn't mean that I
um
it's it's a very hard thing to describe
but it's just like
there's just a natural cycle in the body
that like accumulates
and moves emotions it's just what
happens
and just like
all your other systems they accumulate
stuff and then they move it you know I
keep on using the bathroom but it's like
it's a very similar thing and then
um so there's really no time where there
isn't some sort of thing in there that
can be moved the way that I notice that
my emotional
movement needs to happen and it's not
usually so much like anger or sadness
once you start moving the stuff it it
feels very much over time it just feels
like it's either
stuck or not stuck and when you release
it it can move from anger to sadness to
fear all inside of like a couple minutes
but what happens is
I wake up a little bit
not wanting to face the day that's a
pretty damn good
thing that tells me
um if I am reacting to my stress in any
way that's another thing that tells me
and both of those two things happened
you know the course is a lot of work
that we have a lot more happening this
year than we did last year and so I'm
really wanting to care for everybody and
at the same time wanting to care for
myself and that balance has not been
entirely balanced the whole time so
there's been moments where I'm just like
oh I don't want to get onto Circle and
do this work and that tells me oh I have
some emotion that I need to move so it's
really any feeling of stuckness in my
life any feeling of like not excited and
joy is where I know that I have
something stuck and it needs to move
yeah yeah okay this has been awesome
thank you Joe yeah pleasure pleasure
good to see you Brett you too looking
forward to the next one
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign